One Liner : Pneumonia Detection using Computer vision techniques.
---------
 
Problem statement: 
------------------
Pneumonia is a deadly disease which accounts to top 10 causes of deaths world wide especially childrens.
Diagnosis of this disease is done through the review of Chest Radiograph images,
pneumonia appears to be areas of high opacity in these images, as the areas affected in lungs will be filled with mucus/pus and doesnot allow xrays to pass through.

The challenge in diagnosing pneumonia through CXR images are
* Only the highly trained specialist doctors have to review the Chest Radiograph images, patients clinical history and has to take a lot of laboratory examinations for confirmation.
* The conditions such as fluid overload also appears to be the areas with high opacity in these images.
* The specialist have to review lot of images per shift making room for human errors aswell.

So to solve these problems a dataset of CXRs is provided by medical associations accross the globe,

Objective
----------
Develop a machine learning model which will help to automate the initial detection of potential pneumonia cases.

Data structures:
-----------------
1. Training labels Dataframe
2. Class Detail Info Dataframe
3. Imputed Training labels Dataframe
4. Training label height outliers Dataframe
5. Training label width outliers Dataframe
6. Training label y co-ordinate outliers Dataframe

EDA observations:
----------------
1. There are 2 targets in the training labels file -> 0-Normal , 1-Pneumonia
2. There are around 30227 examples in the training data
3. Out of the total examples 26684 are unique, which means remaining are duplicate of one or the other patient, where it means that there are more than 1 bounding boxes for some patients
4. Some Patients which are classified as NORMAL do not have bounding boxes in the training data
5. Observed that there are around 20,672 patients are normal and have NULL values for the bounding box co-ordinates x,y, width,height
6. The number of patients having bounding box heights treated as outliers =  18
7. The number of patients having bounding box width treated as outliers =  38
8. The number of patients having bounding box y co-ordinate treated as outliers =  7
9. we cannot change the width height or y coordinate directly, so we will observe the output of some of these
  and check if the bounding boxes are not properly defined and remove if required
10. There are three classes in the detailed class info file which are -> 'No Lung Opacity / Not Normal', 'Normal', 'Lung Opacity' 
11. All the series in the training labels data set are fairly symmetrically skewed except the column/series height is moderately left skewed

 

